# ClientServerDevelopment

Q. How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?

A. Following industry "best practices" and standards when writing code allows for others and yourself to follow along. This includes modularity and well-document code with in-line commenting. This allows others to easily follow, maintain or adapt your code to specific application. This CRUD module attached can be applied to many different instances, which creates the value of the code in its reusability.


Q. How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?

A. As a computer scientist, problems are handed to us in the form of business needs. To properly assist the client, it is imperative to fully understand the problem and surrounding cases within the problem. This focuses the development process and ensures that the project stays on target throughout the development. Learning the correct sytnax to use, per language, will assist in modularity and functionality, which will greatly increase development efficiency of code. This was the first course that I, as a student, was responsible for creating the 'full-stack' that would be used. Before, we had been provided either piece and had to learn how to work with what already existed. This was a good practice of taking a set of data, and creating a fully functioning program to be used to filter out proper chocies for search and rescue teams. Using a non-relational database like NoSQL/MongoDB, alongisde python/pymongo, created a powerful application that could process large amounts of data and present it in a highly functional dashboard to be used.


Q. What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?

A. Computer scientist are generally responsible for creating new age solutions for businesses that are attempting to update their infrastructure. This usually relates to solving business issues through well-written code or programs that solve these needs. This will increase many aspects of the business through agility, scalability, profitability, accessibility, and efficiency. This can lead to an overall improvement in the workflow process, no matter what the business is. To be specific, this application helped Grazioso Salvare by adding agility and efficiency to the process of locating dogs throughout the Dallas area that would be good candidates for certain fields of search and rescue.
